---
for: GitHub/edxu96/RexNet/discussion
author: Edward J. Xu
date: Mar 23, 2020
---

# Why does it not exist before? Mar 28, 2020.

## 1. Cost Allocation

> An allocation rule is a general allocation principle that is used with respect to an entire class of similarly structured allocation problems for which there is no objective way to attribute value (cost) to specific members. [_hougaard2009introduction_]

### Quantity-Based Cost Allocation (QCA)

bargaining power of those involved

why the current allocation rules are popular:

- simple
- cost is insignificant
- traditional
- no technology

cost is given, somehow related to quantity by consumers

use real-world data to analyze the cost allocation results. prove the argument with data and comments

> Reservations match supply with demand and permit 100% utilization, while service queues require slack capacity operating at less than 100%. Because of such inefficiency in queues, the firm should not allocate any capacity to serve walk-ins unless the walk-in customers pay higher price than reservation customers do. [_oh2018reservation_]

The cost incurred during off-peak hours because of idle servers should be allocated to those who walk in.

### Exchange-Based Cost Allocation (ECA)

why do we need in the future

- energy is ought to be expensive so we need fair allocation
- no one is responsible for satisfying all the demand

but are largely affected by other factors.

market segmentation

not to discriminate and explore their max willingness to pay, but allocate the high cost because of randomness to those who caused them in the first place.

### Cost Allocation of Network Infrastructures



## 2. Technological Barrier

> The ideas presented in this article might benefit service providers who previously lacked the technological capability of offering multiple prices but may soon be able to do so. Rapid advances in information technology allow more sellers to design forward-selling systems because they can better estimate forward demand with accurate buyer data and analysis. Technological advances (e.g., computerized transaction systems and Internet interfaces) may also soon lower administrative costs and make advance selling more profitable. [_shugan2000advance_]

The generation resources or network capacities are shared among consumers. However, that way, there must be someone responsible for meeting the fluctuations of consumers' need. The backup capacities are shared by consumers.

## 3. New Risk Induced by Decentralized Responses

> A naive approach to sending prices to the flexible demand can have counterproductive consequences if this demand is allowed to respond in an unconstrained manner. [_kirschen2018fundamentals_]

---


[_shugan2000advance_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/Man
[_hougaard2009introduction_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/allocation
[_oh2018reservation_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/Res
[_kirschen2018fundamentals_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/PSE
