# Discussion: stochastic continuous provision


participate in the reservation exchange to determine the distribution of energy carrier

, which is hard to store

stochastic continuous provision
  * procurement
  * control

client

primary energy is easier to store

## why limit orders?

traders submit market orders because of forecasts update

To receive a better price

as long as the price higher than the marginal cost of production, the generator will not endure a lost.

but there may be a surplus of willingness in the market order

## Why restaurant reservation exchange market failed?

The traded asset cannot be pooled, so it is not liquid enough.

## How to cancel the reservation?

the supplier has to find another buyer

if the customer can find another one and sell it.

## Clients and their Requests

> Measuring the consumer’s response is not a trivial problem because the entity paying the incentive wants to make sure that it is getting an actual demand shift, not a random fluctuation in the consumer’s demand. This is typically done by comparing the consum­er’s actual load profile against its profile for similar days. [_kirschen2018fundamentals_]

## Discrete-Time MIMO LTI State-Space Model



### Building Thermal Dynamics

$$
\frac{d T_{i}}{d t}=\frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}}\left(T_{a}-T_{i}\right)+\frac{1}{C_{i}} A_{w} \Phi_{s}+\frac{1}{C_{i}} \Phi_{h}+\sigma_{i} \frac{d \omega_{i}}{d t}
$$

$$
\begin{align}
\dot{T}_{i} &= - \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}} T_{i} + \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}} T_{a}  + \frac{1}{C_{i}} A_{w} \Phi_{s} + \frac{1}{C_{i}} \Phi_{h} \\
\dot{T}_{i} &= - \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}} T_{i} + \left[ \frac{1}{C_{i}}, \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}}, \frac{1}{C_{i}} A_{w} \right] [\Phi_{h}, T_{a}, \Phi_{s}]^{\top} \\
\dot{T}_{i} &= - 0.0913 T_{i} + \left[ 0.4831, 0.0913, 3.8116 \right] [\Phi_{h}, T_{a}, \Phi_{s}]^{\top}
\end{align}
$$

$R_{i a} = 5.29$, $C_{i} = 2.07$, $A_{w} = 7.89$

$$
\mathbf{\dot{T}} = \mathbf{A} \mathbf{T} + \mathbf{B} \mathbf{U}
$$

#### without Solar Radiation

$$
\dot{T}_{i} = - 0.0913 T_{i} + \left[ 0.4831, 0.0913 \right] [\Phi_{h}, T_{a}]^{\top}
$$
