---
for: GitHub/edxu96/RexNet/discussion
author: Edward J. Xu
date: April 17, 2020
---

# Receding Horizon Plan & Order

> Intermediation theory of firms: [_spulber1999market_]
> - Firms act as intermediaries between their customers and their suppliers.
> - Firms are formed when the gains from intermediated exchange exceed the gains from direct exchange.
> - Markets reach equilibrium through strategic pricing and contracting by intermediaries.

RHPO is the event triggered when coordinators arrive in the market. Five aspects are considered in total:

1. manage the request queue according to pre-determined rules
2. update the plan according to executed limit orders
3. modify limit orders in Rex
4. submit market orders
5. coordinate with clients

## 1. Continuous Provision Plants

> An economist’s characterization of the consumer’s decision process would then be of an agent who chooses the least-cost mix of inputs to meet her demand for energy services, and that the amount of energy services demanded depends on the implicit price of those services, based on the price of inputs and their marginal productivity in producing the services. The demand function is then derived from the optimizing behavior of consumers, rather than assumed to have particular elasticities and cross-price elasticities. [_gabriel2013complementarity_]

Continuous provision plants can be represented by __discrete-time linear time-invariant state space model (DT-LTI-SS)__, which are multiple-input multiple-output systems (MIMO):

$$ \begin{align}
\mathbf{w}_{i+1}(t) &= \mathbf{A} \mathbf{w}_{i}(t) + \mathbf{B} \mathbf{u}_{i}(t) \\
\mathbf{v}_{i}(t) &= \mathbf{C} \mathbf{w}_{i}(t) + \mathbf{D} \mathbf{u}_{i}(t)
\end{align} $$

The state of some coordinator and its CPP at time $t$ can be described by:

- portfolio vector (PV): $\mathbf{Y}(t) = [y_i(t), y_{i+1}(t), ..., y_{i+\kappa-1}(t)]$. Usually, one coordinator has one PV. When the coordinator faces multiple clients, it can participate in the market as one identity and distribute the procurement among clients.
- planned input matrix (PIM): $\mathbf{U}(t) = [\mathbf{u}_i(t), \mathbf{u}_{i+1}(t), ..., \mathbf{u}_{i+\kappa-1}(t)]$. The realization will follow the planned input vector if the coordinator does not arrive. The input into the market is the first row of the matrix: $\mathbf{U}^{*}(t) = [u_i^{*}(t), u_{i+1}^{*}(t), ..., u_{i+\kappa-1}^{*}(t)]$.
- planned output matrix (POM): $\mathbf{V}(t) = [\mathbf{v}_i(t), \mathbf{v}_{i+1}(t), ..., \mathbf{v}_{i+\kappa-1}(t)]$, which can be predicted by DT-LTI-SS. The output to satisfy requests of prosumers is the first several rows of the matrix: $\mathbf{V}^{*}(t) = [\mathbf{v}_i^{*}(t), \mathbf{v}_{i+1}^{*}(t), ..., \mathbf{v}_{i+\kappa-1}^{*}(t)]$. The rest rows can be used to indicate if other requirements are satisfied.
- cumulative request matrix (CRM): $\mathbf{X}(t) = [\mathbf{x}_i(t), \mathbf{x}_{i+1}(t), ..., \mathbf{x}_{i+\kappa-1}(t)]$. Usually, there is only one client, so CRM becomes a row vector.

## 2. Receding Horizon Plan & Order for Uncontrollable Clients (RHPO-UC)

> Firms select prices to balance their purchases and sales. They select ask prices to earn revenues and ration consumer demand. They select bid prices to stimulate suppliers and keep down purchase costs of inventories. Buy and sell prices are adjusted to equate marginal revenues and marginal cost subject to sales not exceeding purchases and inventories. [_spulber1999market_]

The decision making problem RHPO-UC when some coordinator arrives:

$$ \begin{align}
\max_{\mathbf{E}(t), \mathbf{U}(t)} \quad & \mathcal{M}_t \left[\mathbf{Y}(t), \mathbf{X}(t), \mathbf{B}^{\mathrm{p}}(t), \mathbf{A}^{\mathrm{p}}(t) \right] \\
& = - \mathbf{H}(t)^{\top} \mathbf{Q} - \left[\mathbf{G}^{+}(t) + \mathbf{G}^{-}(t) \right]^{\top} \mathbf{O} \\
& - \mathbf{U}^{\#}(t)^{\top} \mathbf{R} + l \left[ \mathbf{E}^{+}(t)^{\top} \mathbf{B}^{\mathrm{p}}(t) - \mathbf{E}^{-}(t)^{\top} \mathbf{A}^{\mathrm{p}}(t) \right] \\
\text{s.t.} \quad & \mathbf{w}_{i+k+1}(t) = \mathbf{A} \mathbf{w}_{i+k}(t) + \mathbf{B} \mathbf{u}_{i+k}(t) \quad \forall k \in K \\
& \mathbf{v}_{i+k}(t) = \mathbf{C} \mathbf{w}_{i+k}(t) + \mathbf{D} \mathbf{u}_{i+k}(t) \quad \forall k \in K \\
& \mathbf{v}_{\text{min}} \leq \mathbf{v}_{i+k}(t) \leq \mathbf{v}_{\text{max}} \quad \forall k \in K \\
& \mathbf{u}_{\text{min}} \leq \mathbf{u}_{i+k}(t) \leq \mathbf{u}_{\text{max}} \quad \forall k \in K \\
& - \mathbf{u}_{\Delta} \leq \mathbf{u}_{i+k+1}(t) - \mathbf{u}_{i+k}(t) \leq \mathbf{u}_{\Delta} \quad \forall k \in K' \\
& \mathbf{E}^{+}(t) \geq 0 \quad \\
& \mathbf{E}^{+}(t) \geq \mathbf{E}(t)  \\
& \mathbf{E}^{-}(t) \geq 0 \\
& \mathbf{E}^{-}(t) \geq - \mathbf{E}(t) \\
& \mathbf{H}(t) \geq 0 \\
& \mathbf{H}(t) \geq \mathbf{Y}(t) + \mathbf{E}(t) - \mathbf{U}(t) : \boldsymbol{\lambda}(t) \tag{1} \\
& \mathbf{G}^{+}(t) \geq 0 \\
& \mathbf{G}^{+}(t) \geq \mathbf{V}(t) - \mathbf{X}(t) \\
& \mathbf{G}^{-}(t) \geq 0 \\
& \mathbf{G}^{-}(t) \geq \mathbf{X}(t) - \mathbf{V}(t) \\
& \mathbf{E}(t) \in \mathbb{R}^{\kappa} \\
& \mathbf{U}(t) \in \mathbb{R}^{\kappa}_{+}
\end{align} $$

## 3. Linear Damping Weights

The cost associated with inputs except that from the market $\mathbf{U}^{\#}(t)$:

$$ \begin{align}
\mathbf{R} &= \left[r \quad \frac{\kappa - 1}{\kappa} r \quad \frac{\kappa - 2}{\kappa} r \quad \dots \right]^{\top}
\end{align} $$

The risk weights associated with mismatched $\mathbf{Q}$ and $\mathbf{O}$ can be defined as follows:

$$ \begin{align}
\mathbf{Q} &= \left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
    q & 0 & 0 & \dots & 0 \\
    0 & \frac{\kappa - 1}{\kappa} q & 0 & \dots & 0 \\
    0 & 0 & \frac{\kappa - 2}{\kappa} q & \dots & 0 \\
    \vdots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
    0 & 0 & 0 & \dots & 0
\end{array} \right] \\
\mathbf{O} &= \left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
    o & 0 & 0 & \dots & 0 \\
    0 & \frac{\kappa - 1}{\kappa} o & 0 & \dots & 0 \\
    0 & 0 & \frac{\kappa - 2}{\kappa} o & \dots & 0 \\
    \vdots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
    0 & 0 & 0 & \dots & 0
\end{array} \right]
\end{align} $$

## 4. Cost of Flexibility

The introduction of $\Delta y_k(t)$ changes the right side of equation (1) by one unit. The resulting change of the objective function will be the value of the dual variable associated with the equation (1) in the dual problem of $\mathcal{M}(t)$. That is, the resulting change will be the corresponding Lagrange multiplier:

$$ \begin{align}
\lambda_{k}(t) = \frac{\partial \mathcal{M}_t \left[\mathbf{Y}(t), \mathbf{B}^{\mathrm{p}}(t), \mathbf{A}^{\mathrm{p}}(t) \right]}{\partial y_k(t)}
\end{align} $$

---

[_spulber1999market_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src
[_gabriel2013complementarity_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src

<!-- ## Example: Building Thermal Dynamics

$$
\frac{d T_{i}}{d t}=\frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}}\left(T_{a}-T_{i}\right)+\frac{1}{C_{i}} A_{w} \Phi_{s}+\frac{1}{C_{i}} \Phi_{h}+\sigma_{i} \frac{d \omega_{i}}{d t}
$$

$$
\begin{align}
\dot{T}_{i} &= - \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}} T_{i} + \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}} T_{a}  + \frac{1}{C_{i}} A_{w} \Phi_{s} + \frac{1}{C_{i}} \Phi_{h} \\
\dot{T}_{i} &= - \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}} T_{i} + \left[ \frac{1}{C_{i}}, \frac{1}{R_{i a} C_{i}}, \frac{1}{C_{i}} A_{w} \right] [\Phi_{h}, T_{a}, \Phi_{s}]^{\top} \\
\dot{T}_{i} &= - 0.0913 T_{i} + \left[ 0.4831, 0.0913, 3.8116 \right] [\Phi_{h}, T_{a}, \Phi_{s}]^{\top}
\end{align}
$$

$R_{i a} = 5.29$, $C_{i} = 2.07$, $A_{w} = 7.89$

$$
\mathbf{\dot{T}} = \mathbf{A} \mathbf{T} + \mathbf{B} \mathbf{U}
$$

### without Solar Radiation

$$
\dot{T}_{i} = - 0.0913 T_{i} + \left[ 0.4831, 0.0913 \right] [\Phi_{h}, T_{a}]^{\top}
$$

---

## why limit orders?

traders submit market orders because of forecasts update

To receive a better price

as long as the price higher than the marginal cost of production, the generator will not endure a lost.

but there may be a surplus of willingness in the market order

## Why restaurant reservation exchange market failed?

The traded asset cannot be pooled, so it is not liquid enough.

## How to cancel the reservation?

the supplier has to find another buyer

if the customer can find another one and sell it.
-->
