---
for: GitHub/edxu96/RexNet/discussion
author: Edward J. Xu
date: Mar 23, 2020
---

# Discussion: DES-MAS-CDA Platform

- formulate DES-MAS simulation platform for RexNet
- mathematical description of DES-MAS
- determine all event routines
- plot illustrations of program structures of the platform
- prepare functions, like plotting and storage functions, for experiments
- to reproduce models in literature

## How to Examine RexNet by Simulation ?

How can you obtain trustworthy arguments by simulation instead of analysis.

It is too early to call upon mechanism design

how to design series of simulation experiments ?

## New Simulation Program Structure. Mar 22, 2020.

I have introduced a new structure, clients and brokers, for agent-based models. That way, trading models with trading behaviors can be analyzed alone.
  - Three kinds of clients are set. Clients with uncontrollable are endowed with some assets or demands for assets, but can't participate in the market directly, so they rely on brokers to trade those in the market. Clients with mixed consumptions are endowed as well, but they can make changes according to prices. Clients with controllable generations are very similar to agents with controllable generations, but they rely on brokers just like other clients.
  - There is only one kind of brokers, but they have different strategies for different types of clients. Some brokers, like some brokerage firms, can be responsible for several clients of different prosumers. That is, there are professional brokers, to who clients can delegate their decisions. There are many kinds of trading strategies.

The communications between clients and brokers can be modeled as well. If they are not the same identity, communication can be poor. The brokers will try to know more about their clients, while clients don't want to reveal too much private information.

If agents are directly used to model clients and brokers, once a new kind of strategy is introduced, agents are ought to be modified, while the client parts remain unchanged. Besides, it is hard to distinguish professional brokers from agents.

Clients and brokers can be associated with those in securities markets in the old time. Clients set a deadline to carry out a task, and brokers are free to choose their own strategies and bear any lost.

## Intermediary Problem. Mar 23, 2020.

Brokers face an intermediary problem with two sides of stochasticity
  - future market states
  - future clients' requests

There are three kinds of actions that brokers can choose:
  - submit market orders
  - submit, amend or cancel limit orders
  - advise clients

Brokers can adjust the parameters in trading strategies. The learning events are scheduled according to fixed rules.

Brokers are responsible for mismatches between final inventory in their portfolios and clients' requests.

For now, it is assumed that brokers and corresponding clients belong to the same prosumers, and it can be proven that this is the most efficient way to participate in the market. The separation of brokers and clients will create the problem of [principals and agents](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principal%E2%80%93agent_problem) (PA), and the interaction between brokers and clients has to be modeled. The problems with incumbent electricity market families can be explained by the inefficiency caused by PA.

## Better Informed Participants and Quantity Discovery-Formation. Mar 23, 2020

If the quantity difference is forecasted, there is no difference

information flow

> The price system performs the formidable task of aggregating “the dispersed bits of incomplete and frequently contradictory knowledge which all the separate individuals possess”, as F. A. Von Hayek (1945) put it. [_birchler2007information_]

Participants have different opinions over the same target: the market price.

Participants should have their own opinions about their own prosumption and reveal them through the market.

reduce parameters to describe trader's strategies

- for uncontrollable prosumptions, the increasing of bid-ask spreads incentive participants to find their unknown quantity
- for controllable ones, they profit from the trading

the effect of execution of limit orders on adjacent units

## Comparison between DES-MAS and DES. Mar 23, 2020

[Detailed Description of DES-MAS](https://github.com/edxu96/RexNet/blob/master/docs/outline.md#4-1-discrete-event-simulation-of-multi-agent-systems-des-mas)

- system states in a distributed way
- market-mediated communication only

multiple sources of external factors, usually associated with agents

the distribution of parameters need to be specified.

## Assignment of Model Parameters and Endowment. Mar 29, 2020.

the parameters are fixed. they don't have to ability to learn

we can analyze the incentive of prosumers according to simulation result

what kind of prosumers earn more in the market, so others will imitate their behaviors.

---

[_birchler2007information_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/market
