---
for: GitHub/edxu96/RexNet/discussion
author: Edward J. Xu
date: June 28, 2020
---

# Discussion: difference compared to incumbent electricity market families

incumbent electricity market families
  - day-ahead market
  - intra-day market
  - balancing market
  - auxiliary markets

## Mar 19, 2020. To Egor Starkov

Periodic double auction (PDA) is the mainstream of mechanism in electricity market families. Please refer to the [day-ahead (DA) market in Nordpool](https://www.nordpoolgroup.com/the-power-market/Day-ahead-market/ ). It should be classified as a uniform-price combinatorial double auction where you can submit block orders because the start or shut down of electricity generators comes with costs. The auction clears once a day, and the formation of orders is extremely complicated. Though there are many researchers in this area, there is no such market that household consumers or producers can participate directly.

CDA is used in incumbent electricity market families as well. Except for DA, intra-day and balancing adopt CDA. Trading volumes in DA and balancing markets are huge, while those of intra-day are below 10% across Europe. Balancing market is a controlled CDA, where limit orders cannot be changed, there is a centralized coordinator (ISO) responsible for procuring limit orders (options) in auxiliary markets through long-term contracts.

As you can see, the complexity prevents the direct participation of citizens. So, most of the time, consumptions are treated as static load forecasts in the market-clearing, for which utility companies and ISOs are usually responsible. To reduce extra backup generations and penetrate more renewable generations, the direct participation is the key.

In my view, the continuous double auction should be used as the main platform. PDA can be used in the opening auction. The most important rule is that if consumers don’t participate, they are not allowed to consume, which forces consumers to participate. I am convinced that this rule can reduce the cost to build modern power systems in developing countries.

## Mar 20, 2020. To Egor Starkov

Currently, there are two levels of markets in power industries. Utility companies like generation companies and electricity distribution companies participate in the commodity market, which includes all markets I mentioned in the last mail. Then, electricity distribution companies satisfy their customers. The retailing market is not a real market, because it only means that you can switch your electricity distribution company. It is not realistic, because you can not alter the distribution networks connecting your home, so electricity distribution companies are mostly local nature monopolies. For example, I never heard another electricity distribution company except for Ørsted in Denmark. Ørsted is a generation company as well, so it just needs to procure the mismatched part in the commodity market.

All in all, a retailing market is lacking. People should be able to trade directly in the market, instead of being treated as passive loads to be satisfied. It is the backup generations that waste lost of resources. There would be energy trading management companies in Rex, I imagine, but they are fundamentally different from electricity distribution companies because the former ones are not obliged to satisfy their client’s demand.

## Mar 18, 2020. To Pierre Pinson

It turns out that the new design is similar to incumbent electricity market families:

There must be an opening auction to accommodate all the orders submitted prior to the opening of the exchange market. The opening auction is used in almost all securities markets like the New York Stock Exchange as well. The mechanism used is the periodic double auction.

Rex is the same as exchange-based intra-day markets and balancing markets in essence. Limit orders in balancing markets cannot be modified because ISOs need enough sources to track the fluctuations of demand. Instead, the “no reservation no electricity” rule in Rex assures that no one is responsible for satisfying the uninformed demand. The reason behind the rule is that the assets traded in Rex is the number of constraints regarding presumptions, which forces prosumers to balance the fluctuations within time units. So there is no need for capacity markets and other auxiliary markets.
Trading volumes in exchange-based intra-day markets are very low compared to day-ahead markets and balancing markets. But if the three are integrated together like Rex, it will be easy for prosumers to participate.

It seems that the next step is to try different agent-based models (event routines) and to illustrate market operations.
