---
for: GitHub/edxu96/RexNet/discussion
author: Edward J. Xu
date: Mar 23, 2020
---

# Discussion: Why ABM and DES?

## Illustration of Market Operations. Mar 28, 2020

I think it is not necessary to prove the efficiency of this market using closed-form solutions. We just need to simulate the market operation process using reasonable models of people. The primary objective is to demonstrate the decision-making processes of different kinds of agents, so that’s why I am looking for agent-based models. They must be heterogeneous, responsive and realistic. A framework to model agents is lacking. I hope to illustrate the effect of external factors on the market through agents. For example, the weather suddenly changes and there will not be enough wind as forecast before. How wind turbine managers react to this information through the CDA market and how consumers lower their consumption afterward are important questions. (_Mar 19, 2020. To Egor Starkov_)

> In your dream world with continuous double auction in which every household participates, things are different. The many households would likely behave close to competitively if they are rational (as in homo economicus) -- so you would have a one-sided auction in which only suppliers behave strategically. It is even more likely, however, that the consumers would either abstain from participating in the market (by submitting some default order every day) due to attention costs, or delegate their decision to the electric company, which would be able to provide insurance (which is what effectively happens now). Whether you want to include any of the latter features in your model is your choice (and if you do, it would be unorthodox, despite realistic), but if not then I would model this case as an auction of few suppliers who are submitting bids against a demand curve generated by competitive buyers. This may or may not culminate in the basic Cournot oligopoly model. (_asked by Egor Starkov on Mar 20, 2020._)

The benefits of participants are the primary concern. Because the market doesn't exist, so it is not necessary for models to reproduce the stylized facts.

## Distributed System States. Mar 24, 2020

Some agent state can be changed very frequently. But as long as they don't participate in the market by submitting orders, other agents don't know its state evolution. By observing order flows in the market, agents can only have partial information about other agents.

## Compared to Market Micro-Structure (MMS). Mar 28, 2020

> In microstructure, we most often think either about competitive traders, or about one-on-one bargaining, so that the problems can be solved in closed form. (Although I have very little idea of what happens in modern literature.) (_answered by Egor Starkov on Mar 19, 2020._)

## Compared to Asset Pricing. Mar 28, 2020

> Asset pricing deals with representative agent models most of the time and cannot even solve those in closed form, so they are not too excited about adding heterogeneous agents in there (which adds a huge amount of computational complexity). (_answered by Egor Starkov on Mar 19, 2020._)
