
# Difference compared to ordinary limit order markets

You can't hold some assets for a long time. They expire after gate closures.






liquidity is decreasing

## Consumption Asset. Mar 25, 2020.

> When considering forward and futures contracts, it is important to distinguish between investment assets and consumption assets. An investment asset is an asset that is held for investment purposes by significant numbers of investors. Stocks and bonds are clearly investment assets. Gold and silver are also examples of investment assets. Note that investment assets do not have to be held exclusively for investment. (Silver, for example, has a number of industrial uses.) However, they do have to satisfy the requirement that they are held by significant numbers of investors solely for investment. A consumption asset is an asset that is held primarily for consumption and not usually for investment purposes. Examples of consumption assets are commodities such as copper, oil, and pork bellies. [_hull2017foundamentals_]

> We can use arbitrage arguments to determine the forward and futures prices of an investment asset from its spot price and other observable market variables. We cannot do this for consumption assets. [_hull2017foundamentals_]

## Futures Exchange Market. Mar 25, 2020.

> The spot electricity is not a tradeable asset in the classical sense, since it is non-storable. Moreover, it is not easy to give a precise definition to what exactly is the spot in the electricity market (see Geman, 2005, for more on the spot markets of electricity). The basic tradeable assets in the electricity markets can typically be described as forward and futures contracts with delivery of electricity over a time period. [_benth2008stochastic_]

## Short Selling


## Why does it not exist before? Mar 28, 2020.

> The ideas presented in this article might benefit service providers who previously lacked the technological capability of offering multiple prices but may soon be able to do so. Rapid advances in information technology allow more sellers to design forward-selling systems because they can better estimate forward demand with accurate buyer data and analysis. Technological advances (e.g., computerized transaction systems and Internet interfaces) may also soon lower administrative costs and make advance selling more profitable. [_shugan2000advance_]

---

[_hull2017foundamentals_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/market
[_benth2008stochastic_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/market
[_shugan2000advance_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/Man
