---
for: GitHub/edxu96/RexNet/discussion
author: Edward J. Xu
date: April 12, 2020
---

# Discussion: Why CDA not PDA ?

> The way securities are actually traded is far removed from the idealized picture of a frictionless and self-equilibrating market offered by the typical finance textbook. In that idealized version of the trading process, all potential participants are present on the market; these participants convey to the market orders that reflect their demand or supply of securities, and they are not affected by actions of other market participants; and an auctioneer balances the quantities demanded and supplied at a single equilibrium price that reflects a consensus view of the security’s “fundamental value.” Real-world markets do not work like this, for two main reasons. [_foucault2013market_]
> - First, market players are not all simultaneously present on the market. Such continuous presence would be too costly in time, attention, and access costs. At any given point in time, price formation is delegated to the limited number of market participants who happen to be present. Any temporary imbalance between buy and sell orders for a security will have to be absorbed by whoever (p.2) is present, especially by professional intermediaries who specialize in “making the market.” Typically, market makers and other investors will absorb order imbalances only if the price is sufficiently attractive. For instance, to absorb a spate of sell orders investors will require the inducement of a sufficiently low price. As a result, the equilibrium price actually struck at any given instant may deviate from the one that would emerge if all investors participated. These price deviations generate profit opportunities, which in turn will draw in more traders. Over time the deviations are ironed out.
> - Second, even the limited number of participants who are present at any instant in a real- world security market have quite diverse information about the security’s fundamentals: some participants are shrewd market professionals with all the latest news and state-of- the-art pricing models at their fingertips; others do not have such up-to-date information but may try to infer it from the behavior of other participants; still others may trade for reasons that are unrelated to information, for instance a need to liquidate their holdings in order to pay their bills. As a result, the order flow is a complex mix of information and noise, and a consensus price only emerges over time, as the trading process evolves and participants interpret the actions of other traders. This is another reason why a security’s actual transaction price might deviate from its fundamental value, which would be assessed by a fully informed set of investors.

PDA is suitable for large orders. The objective of orders in CDA is to modify their large orders in the opening auction.

---

[_foucault2013market_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/market
