
# Discussion: why Prosumers Trade?

The requests of clients are governed by stochastic processes. Order flows are determined by agents' decisions.

> In security exchanges, trading occurs because investors differ in their share valuations and the advent of news that is not common knowledge.

allocate assets

## Three kinds of Reasons. Mar 29, 2020.

- adjust reservations with market orders, no need to speculate and learn from the market
- earn a profit through limit orders and associated market orders
- arbitrage


## 0 Possibility of Arbitraging? Mar 26, 2020.

The bid-ask spreads are increasing.

round trip trade will seldom be profitable

not entirely true


## From Info to Quantities. Mar 28, 2020.

The reservation-based market "bribe" individuals to do:

- reveal private information about their future prosumption quantity.
- encourage prosumers to manipulate their future prosumption quantity



> At the time of purchase, buyers must anticipate the future consumption state and the corresponding utility from that future consumption state. The maximum price the buyer would be willing to pay at purchase, therefore, depends on the expected utility from the expected consumption state. [_shugan2000advance_]

> Service providers can exploit different levels of willingness to commit by offering discounts to those consumers who are willing to make an early commitment, and charge higher prices for a last-minute booking. [_shy2008how_]

> When announcing either a pure advance-ticket strategy or a high spot-price strategy, buyers must believe that the service provider will not later turn around and offer a low spot price. Different factors can ensure that seller announcements are credible.  [_shugan2000advance_]

__Market Segmentation__ Purchases of service at different forward time units for the same service at same unit are segmented to different goods.

- quantity discovery
- quantity formation

---

[_shugan2000advance_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/Rex
[_shy2008how_]: https://github.com/edxu96/symposium/tree/master/src/Man
