
# Supporting Materials

## An Alternate History of Electricity Development

Imagine another world around 1900s, of which the condition is exactly the same as that in our world, except the supply of electricity. The electricity was supplied in fixed quantity for every consumer just during night for light, while people can continue reading or working. The price of electricity is relatively cheap, because of the easy operation of generation facilities.

With the development of telephone and popularization of electricity teakettle and other appliances, people can appoint a time for them to use more quantity of electricity. They had to call the electricity company in advance, or they will be fined for consuming too much electricity or during the wrong time. As the mature of the market, there were more and more new electricity companies in the town, so people can make their appointment with any of the supplier, or just used the electricity during the time when there was supply. The concentrating supply time becomes more diversified because of different services from difference companies. For instance, there is a company called Jason Limited provides extra electricity for boiling water every morning at 6. For the family or the factory with lots of electricity equipment, they can just appoint lots of electricity everyday, which saved the bother to make appointment over and over again. Everyone seemed to be happy with the supply of electricity. The people with limit budget for electricity can always adjust their reading or working according to the supply condition, while richer people can live and work more at will.

After some time, there was a new technology developed, which can generate electricity at lower cost, but the production quantity may vary. Still, the talented engineers developed a way to predict the production before some time. So, someone called Edward said that he could announce the time for production in the square every time when the engineers calculate a prediction. People in the square at that time can sign contact with Edward immediately and run home to consume that amount of electricity in predicted time. The price is so low that many people would like to stay in the square all the time to listen to Edward when there will be extra supply.

In the 21st century, computers, the Internet and cellphones have been invented. So the company decides to replace appointment by calling and Edward through Internet and apps. Besides, they can make even more accurate prediction using computer. The access of electricity becomes easier and easier. The electricity industry gradually becomes the one that we may want it to be in the future.

The problem is actually the development of computers, Internet and cellphones is far behind the popularization of electricity. Moreover, we take the accessibility of electricity and randomness of changing consuming rate for granted. Global warming and wealth inequality have forced us to choose an alternative, and I believe this mechanism can be the solution.

This story can be the description of deployment of power facility in rural areas as well. In this scenario, we only provide limited amount of power in the rural area where there is no or less-developed power facility in the beginning. The main reason is to lower the price for large scale deployment, and all the locals can boil water using electric kettle or read during night. Then, with the development of local economy and education, the locals have more and more economic ability and reason to develop the power grid. The incentive of low-cost power supply will also attract more and more companies with more efficient and advanced technology to help generate more electricity. This is a more moderate and reasonable development path.
